*scenario is real but sensitive information will be alerted*

Incident Response Report 
  
Date: 7/31/2026
Prepared By:  Matt 
Contributor(s) 	 None  
	 
Department: IT	 
Incident Name: 	 Windows LOLBIN
Incident Number:	001 
 
  
 Incident Summary: 
-	How the incident was detected, What alerts was triggered?
    This incident was Detected by the XDR system, That alert that was triggered based on Windows LOLBIN attack techniques

-	What is the source of the attack, what was their target or wants?
	The source was Claud.exe

-	What is the method of the attack (malware, malicious document, and other adversary attacks)?  
	Claud.exe opened PowerShell and ran a command to dependencies information on the PowerShell and system environment. 

-	Determining the potential business impact of the cybersecurity incident
	The business impact is minimal do to this alert. 
 
Information Exposure 
- What information was breached/accessed/stolen and impact with respect to operations, teaching or research?  
 
Investigative Findings  
Incident Timeline  
Key events in timeline which lead to detections
 
Date & Time (MDT) Detection Source & Description 
 	   claude.exe      :  Detection of 
       Powershell.exe  :  Microsoft tool 
 
 
Incident Analysis 
Malware and miscellaneous files connected to the compromise 
Name 	Location/File Path 	Hash  	Size 	User 	Malicious IP 	Vulnerability Exploited 


 
Extent of the compromise 
List of assets that could be affected. This includes devices such as servers, workstations and laptops, user accounts, services, applications, etc.  

Server: 
IP address: 
Purpose: 
 User Account:
 Process:
Comments: 
 	 	 	 	 	 
 	 	 	 	 	 
 
Containment  
  Explain the steps taken to contain the incident. 
 The goal of containment is to minimize the damage to the organization, It also to prevent further damage/exploit
 
Preservation of evidence  
-	image of disk and logs
-	Detection rules lead to discovery.
-	A detailed written log of every action during the investigation 
-	Documentation of the environment  
 
Eradication 
 
Eradication is intended to remove malware or other artifacts introduced by the attacks and fully restore the affected system. 
 
-	Do you know the point of entry? 
-	How do fix the problem and verify the threat has been eradicated? 
-	What additional hardening, patching, and/or configuration steps need to be taken?  
-	Is there any patching that needs to be done to ensure other systems on the network aren’t affected or changes that need to be made to prevent future breaches.




 
-	 
Recovery 
- The goal of recovery is to bring all systems back online and confirm the threat been Eradicated. 
 
