
Incident Report
Executive Summary
•	Incident ID: 2026-0254
•	Incident Severity: Low
•	Incident Status: Resolved
•	Incident Overview:  

The Incident was triggered when Claude AI application, Which was installed and running locally on and endpoint. Claude Attempted
to establish a connection to an unknown external IP by executing a PowerShell command which triggered an alert on XDR for Windows LOLBin.
It was determined the activity did not represent a malicious attack. 
However, the event was a violation of organizational policy which would result in repones to the incident 


Technical Analysis
Affected Systems & Data
Affected Endpoint: 1 
Endpoint Name: <Endpoint name>

Evidence Sources & Analysis


Indicators of Compromise (IoCs)

Root Cause Analysis
The root cause of the policy violation was the unauthorized local installment of Claude AI application on organizational endpoint.

Due to the application being installed the AI was able to use endpoint resources on behalf of the user. 
It is  believe the user as the AI to perform a task which resulted into the connection attempt to the external IP

The investigation found no evidence that the system was compromised however still a policy violation.

Technical Timeline
•	Claude.exe
•	Powershell.exe
• Command executed. 

•	Eradication Times



Nature of the Attack

This event was determined not to be a malicious attacks

The alert was generated due to the a powershell command tried to connect to an external IP

Impact Analysis
No confirmed compromise or data loss was identified.


Response and Recovery Analysis
Immediate Response Actions
 
• Investigated the connection attempt to the unknown external IP.
• Identified the application responsible for initiating the activity.
• Traced the process execution chain making Claude.exe the Parent.
• Confirmed that Claude was installed locally on the affected endpoint.
• Isolated/prevented the identified external connection as appropriate.
• Reviewed the endpoint for additional suspicious activity.
• Confirmed that no evidence of compromise was identified.

Containment Strategy
The locally installed Claude Application was removed from the Endpoint.

Eradication Measures
Removed Claude.exe

Recovery Steps
Data Restoration
None needed

System Validation
Validate the removal of the application and any other file belonging to program

Post-Incident Actions
Monitoring
None was needed

Lessons Learned

The lesson learned that better controls needed to be in place to ensure this type of application doesn't have local access. 
New policy and controls was explored to prevent a Incident like this from happing again

Final Disposition

Incident Classification: False Positive / Policy Violation
Severity: Low
Security Compromise: None Identified
Data Loss: None Identified
Remediation: Application Removed
Preventive Action: Enhanced Application and Endpoint Controls
